hello everyone this video we're going to
talk a little bit about hand spools and
trimming equipment first thing you're
going to use pair clippers I always
recommend getting the professional grade
Clippers ones that you buy there for
home brewing typically don't work very
well and last grey long so I always
suggest investing in a pair of
professional strength Clippers even for
the home guren you buy one pair and it
really last you forever if you're just
screwing one or two dogs at home so the
model that I use is the and these
however there are lots of different
brands that are great and then I'm going
to talk a little about the blades here
there are a lot of different lengths of
plates I'm just going to go over a few
of the basic ones and then on the
website and in front of each screamin
video we'll talk a little bit about
specifically as we use to groom that
specific breed of dog the first one is
the 40 blade and this is a super super
short blade it's going to be used for
pads of the feet and pretty much just
even with the comb guard attachment to
keep the dog's hair longer you can see
the comb guard attachments come in
different lengths also and these are
just called comb attachment or guard
combs or any variations of that but that
basically is going to leave a longer
length of hair on the dog and the other
thing I want to talk about with the
blades is that there are some blades
such as the 7 and the 7f these two leave
the exact same amount of hair the exact
same length of hair however you can see
that they look very different this is
called a straight 7 and you can see the
jaggedness it's really just for cutting
through mats you do want to be super
careful I actually wouldn't recommend
this to a novice homebrew learner once
you get a little more advanced you can
get one of these it's also good for
skimming which we'll talk about in
smoother grooming videos and this is a 7
F it's obviously a much safer blade it
is the same length
most of the blades you're going to want
to stick
we'll be the F version so don't let that
confuse you if you're looking in a
catalogue and also it the number four
blade and the number five blade also
come in these variations so what you
want to look for is that F at the end
that's the the best blade to be using
and it's just a longer blade this is a
3/4 blade it leaves about a half of an
inch so you can see obviously that the
lengths vary quite a bit on the blades
and then also if you want even longer
open a comb attachment on top of your
blade I want to go over Adam trimming
tools the scissors and whatnot I pretty
much sit with curved shears you can also
buy straight shears however if you're
going to invest in just one pair I would
recommend getting the curve and not the
straights straights are good for doing
you know bottoms of skirts back of legs
however you know rounding feet things
like that most of the hair to be cutting
is going to be in a curved pattern so
instead if you're going to just buy one
pair I would go with curved and these
come in different lengths the shorter is
probably better because it's safer the
longer ones are obviously on you can
groom faster however just the home
groomer I would stick with with a
shorter scissors you can get them you
know with ten inches long but again for
safety stick with the shorter version
one of the things I can't live without
are my thinning shears exactly would
recommend these these are great for
finishing for making a more natural edge
line and I also use these quite a bit to
break up mats in 49 we have our standard
nail trimmers of course and you can also
buy the kind that's completely closed in
I always recommend the kind of opens
because if you have the kind that's
closed off completely they're called
guillotine if your dog's nails in there
and you're not wanting to cut sometimes
if your dog gets upset and kind of get
stuck on their foot and of course makes
them more upset so I always recommend
the kind completely open and this is
actually a dremel I got this at the
hardware store groomers use them on dog
nails you can buy a double version also
and this is just for nail file you know
so when you're done trimming or if your
dog's nails aren't very long
now use a filer such as the drum and
then with the Pelagian Clippers I also
of course recommend having some sort of
a cleaner this is just a spray cleaner
and you can actually use this right
right line your blade while your
Clippers are on and spray all around
and that keeps your blades lubricated
and keeps your place disinfected and for
more heavy-duty cleaning oh this is a
sort of greasy but for heavy-duty
cleaning like end of the day or end of
the groom and use this hooker stuff and
basically just you turn your Clippers on
and you just dunk it in
and now we'll just clean out all the
extra hair and I do have to be get these
really wiped off because like I said
this solution is very greasy and you
don't want to use this between grooms or
while you're grooming your dog you
really want to make sure that is you
know like at the end of the end of your
groom you really don't even have to do
that after every groom but just you want
to make sure you do that when it starts
to look like you have a lot of hairs
stuck in parts of the blade or whatnot
you can dip it in this solution and I'll
really clean it out well that's just a
little overview about some of the
trimming equipment that we'll be using
in the videos